PROJECT DESIGN PHASE II
FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Project description:
This project is aimed at developing a desktop-based application named Nutrition Assistant
Application for estimates food attributes such as ingredients and nutritional value by
classifying the input images of food. The Nutrition Assistant Application refers to the system
and processes to help the user to analyse the intake of food with the involvement of a
Technology system. This system can be used to store the details of the user’s health,
calculating the BMI, Classifying the food image to know the nutritional value, update the
status of their health condition based on the information provided, and generate health reports
weekly or monthly based. This project is categorizing individual health condition of the user.
The Nutrition Assistant Application is important to control their daily calorie intake by eating
healthier foods, which is the most basic method to avoid obesity. Without proper diet control,
and this is reflective of the risks to people’s health. A good Nutrition Assistant Application
will alert the users when it is time to avoid. This project aims at building a web App that
automatically estimates food attributes such as ingredients and nutritional value by
classifying the input image of food.
Scope:
Maintains good health: The application can help in guiding them on how to
remain healthy and how to take good nutrition. The application will help
them without personally going to the doctor. Promote better nutrition in the
community by educating about better diet and nutrition.
Functional limitation: The user to be specific can’t access the web or
admin module, whereas the administrator has all the rights to modify and
manage the contents such as news, tips, etc
Improve Usability: In the part of user’s just the internet connection is enough
in order to access the news, updates and other contents provided by the admin
regarding their health condition.
Health conscious: This will provide convenience to persons/users who wants
to learn about nutrition and other related health topics by just using the
Nutrition Assistant Application
Purpose:
The users continue to demand to know the nutritional value that is in their food. The users learn
about the effect of different foods on human health. Evidently, the ultimate aim of this
application is to provide the ways in which one can lead a healthy life by maintaining his/her
diet. The user can access the nutritional information by taking a photo of the food, uploading a
photo from the gallery, or by entering manually.
Date 25October 2022
Team ID PNT2022TMID41648
Project Name Nutrition Assistant Application.
Nutrition is more than just obtaining nutrients and calories from food. It’s more than just eating
the healthy stuff. It’s more than just following the most recent fad diet. Nutrition, the food we
eat and the way we eat it, is an integral part of life. Nutrition is an experience. It evokes
memories, helps us celebrate good times, and is there for us in times of grief. I believe the
purpose of nutrition is to nourish the body and soul.
The Nutrition Assistant Application helps the users to eat nutritional rich food which yield to
lead a healthy life.
IDENTIFIER REQUIREMENTS
1. Add health information This application will allow to add health
related information of the user.
2. Delete health information This application will allow to delete the
unwanted details about their health.
3. Categories of nutritional food The categories of food.
4. View of Dashboard Application will allow user to view the
dashboard containing nutrition details.
5. Mail Notification This application will allow to send mail
notification to user when there are any issues
regarding their health
6. Tracking System The health can be tracked with this
application.
7. Graph analysis This application will demonstrate health
condition by means of nutritional content
8. Identifying the high calorie food The high calorie ingredients will be shown
via this application.
9. Identifying the low calorie food The high calorie ingredients will be shown
via this application.
10. Passcode This application has the option to set a
passcode to keep their medical reports safe.
12. Add multiple accounts This application has the option of creating
multiple accounts for the users.
13. Selection of health report duration This application has the ability to select the
duration for displaying the health report as
weekly or monthly.
14. Update account This application will allow the user to update
their profile.
15. Add account This application will allow the user to add
their profile.
16. Delete account This application will allow the user to delete
their profile.
17. PDF report This application will generate the pdf report
of medical analysis.
18. Pupation of nutritional trends This application will allow constant review
